{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1504\cocoasubrtf820
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset204 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 LucidaGrande-Bold;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{square\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u9642 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12180\viewh13940\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs36 \cf0 Models of Impact  \'96 Version 5.0
\fs28 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b0 \cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 Thanks for downloading Models of Impact! 
\b0 This role-playing and ideation game was created by Matthew Manos to simulate the process of launching a social enterprise or socially responsible line of business. To get a sense for what is inside this zip file, continue reading below. \
\
Start with the PDF file titled 
\b \'931. MOI_Toolkit-v5.pdf\'94
\b0 . This toolkit walks players through a series of activities in order to simulate the process of inventing and launching a social enterprise in just four steps: LEARN, INVENT, PROGRAM, and REPORT. Thousands of Entrepreneurs, Students, Consultants, and Executives from across the globe have leveraged this game to imagine new business opportunities, provide a platform for professional development, learn about social enterprise, and bring real change to communities. \
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
The game is deceivingly simple. After taking a deep-dive into the landscape of existing business models that are relevant to your areas of interest/operation, users engage in a cross-pollination of ideas that serve as the catalyst for a new product, service, or initiative. By exploring a range of ideas in an unbiased manner, you are able to understand the edges of your opportunity for impact.\
\
To play, you will need a 20-sided die (yes, like those ones in Dungeons and Dragons). The suggested play time is 2-3 hours if you are taking the \'93Lite\'94 path, and ~4 hours if you are taking the \'93Robust\'94 path. While the method can be experienced alone, it is recommended to work in a group of 3-5 for the best results. If you do not have dice, you can cut a sheet of paper into 20 pieces and draw from a bag or hat.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\b \cf0 \'932. MOI_Glossary-v5.pdf\'94
\b0  is the second most important document in the toolkit. This PDF contains a glossary that defines 200+ Impact Models and Revenue Models that you can use throughout the experience. Don\'92t worry, \'931. MOI_Toolkit-v5.pdf\'94 will tell you when you need it! Also, even if you aren\'92t up for playing the game in its entirety, this glossary has been described as the most comprehensive business model resource available!\
\
Aside from these two PDF documents, you will find a folder titled \'93MOI_Resources\'94 - here\'92s what you\'92ll find inside:\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	
\f1 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}
\b \'931. Workshop_Slides\'94 
\b0 \'96 in this folder, you will find sample set of presentation slides, along with a sample script, for facilitating the Models of Impact workshop.\
\pard\tx220\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li720\fi-720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\b \cf0 {\listtext	
\f2 \uc0\u9642 
\f0 	}\'932. Large_Format_Posters\'94 
\b0 \'96 in this folder, you will find a print-ready version of both the \'93lite\'94 and \'93robust\'94 Models of Impact canvases. These can be used during workshops or class sessions, and are designed to be printed at 24x36 inches.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
If you have any questions about the download, feel free to email us at info@verynice.co, and we will get back to you as soon as we can!\
}